the fossil record confirms that a
bear-like creature was the likely
ancestor of today's seals and it's not
difficult to spot the bear still lurking
in these seals sometimes it's their
playful character other times their
whiskery appearance those first seals
found the coastal waters laden with
riches literally swimming with food
naturally they reap the benefits and so
one group of seals known as the fur
seals evolved these fur seals may have
mastered the fishing but they're still
shackled to the land they have to return
for six months each year to raise their
young this northern fur seal is totally
focused on her newborn it's for a coat
simply isn't thick enough to protect it
from the rigors of the ocean it needs a
layer of fat which takes about six
months growing time it's the pup that
keeps the female firmly anchored to the
land and with a youngster in mind it's
the female who chooses a spot on the
beach unfortunately
good beaches are scarce and the result
is severe overcrowding
but females don't mind other mothers for
company what they could do without at
the moment are the tiresome males
the problem is that this mail couldn't
care less about the young or he wants is
lots of females
these mothers won't come into season
until their pups are about a month old
things could be quite peaceful for a
while
if only the male's would wait but
unfortunately they can't
in order to make sure that he will make
with as many females as possible from
the day they arrived on the beach he
guards them and bosses them constantly
the boss soon turns into a bully when
one of his females wants to visit the
scene the mothers must get to the sea to
fish in order to keep up their milk
supply without which their pups would
starve while the females are away the
pups seeking comfort huddled together in
a Krish
you